[Content collections] Add `.astro` directory setup (#2313)
withastro/docs: src/pages/en/guides/content-collections.mdx

  </Fragment>
</TypeScriptSettingTabs>

### Set up the `.astro` directory

Astro generates TypeScript types from your content collections in the `.astro` directory. These types will be updated anytime you run the [`astro dev`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-dev), [`astro build`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-build), or [`astro sync`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-sync) commands.

:::tip
If you're using Git for version control, we recommend ignoring this generated directory by adding `.astro` to your `.gitignore`.
:::

> These commands will also generate a [reference path](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/triple-slash-directives.html#-reference-path-) to include `.astro` types in your project. This will be added to your project's [`src/env.d.ts` file](/en/guides/typescript/#setup), or write the file automatically if none exists.

Reviewer: Updated my suggestion because it got icky to say "this will be added OR a file will be created AND THEN this will be added." Open to offers on this.

> These commands will also generate a [reference path](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/triple-slash-directives.html#-reference-path-) to include `.astro` types in your project. This will be added to your project's [`src/env.d.ts` file](/en/guides/typescript/#setup), or write the file automatically if none exists.

Author: Fair enough! Added that 👍

  </Fragment>
</TypeScriptSettingTabs>

### Set up the `.astro` directory

Astro generates TypeScript types from your content collections in the `.astro` directory. These types will be updated anytime you run the [`astro dev`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-dev), [`astro build`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-build), or [`astro sync`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-sync) commands.

:::tip
If you're using Git for version control, we recommend ignoring this generated directory by adding `.astro` to your `.gitignore`.
:::

> These commands will also generate a [reference path](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/triple-slash-directives.html#-reference-path-) to include `.astro` types in your project. The following will be added to your project's [`src/env.d.ts` file](/en/guides/typescript/#setup) (Astro creates this file if none exists):

Reviewer: Great minds, Ben!

My only nits are that "Astro creates this file if none exists." is a full sentence and *probably* needs a period? closely followed by a colon? (And, I would have liked a structure where the colon comes immediately after the sentence that says "the following..."

There are ways around that, but I'll consider it non-blocking for now! If it bothers me enough, I can always revisit punctuation/sentence strucure another time!

  </Fragment>
</TypeScriptSettingTabs>

### Set up the `.astro` directory

Astro generates TypeScript types from your content collections in the `.astro` directory. These types will be updated anytime you run the [`astro dev`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-dev), [`astro build`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-build), or [`astro sync`](/en/reference/cli-reference/#astro-sync) commands.

:::tip
If you're using Git for version control, we recommend ignoring this generated directory by adding `.astro` to your `.gitignore`.
:::

> These commands will also add a [reference path](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/triple-slash-directives.html#-reference-path-) to your [`src/env.d.ts` file](/en/guides/typescript/#setup) if one exists. You can add this entry manually like so:
> 
> ```ts title="src/env.d.ts" ins={2}
> // use a relative path `../` to the `.astro` directory
> /// <reference types="../.astro/types.d.ts" />
> /// <reference path="astro/client" />
> ````

Reviewer 2: What do you think about being a bit more direct here: handled automatically, otherwise _do_ this. Because if you don’t you’re missing out right?

````suggestion
These commands will also add a [reference path](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/triple-slash-directives.html#-reference-path-) to [`src/env.d.ts`](/en/guides/typescript/#setup) to make generated types available in your project. If your project does not include a `src/env.d.ts` file, create this file manually:

```ts title="src/env.d.ts"
// use a relative path `../` to the `.astro` directory
/// <reference types="../.astro/types.d.ts" />
/// <reference path="astro/client" />
````
````

Reviewer: Seconding Chris' suggestion! (with the `ins={2}`) And, I would stat "If your project..." as its own paragraph. (personally)

Reviewer 2: Updated with the separate paragraph. Are you sure about including `ins={2}`? My thinking was if you’re creating this manually, you need to create the _whole_ file, so highlighting just one line might be confusing?

Author: Well, looks like we're good to remove this! We now inject the whole `src/env.d.ts` file if none exists. Think we're safe to remove manual instructions 👍
